README.md, before:

# Academic Resources for Computer Science

**March 2018 Release.** *The content and code on this repo is intended for computer science instruction as a collaboration with Microsoft developer advocates and Faculty / Students under the [MIT license](LICENSE.md). Please check back regularly for updated versions.*

**Source:** https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience

This repo provides technical resources to help students and faculty learn about Azure and teach others. The content covers cross-platform scenarios in AI and machine learning, data science, web development, mobile app dev, internet of things, and devops.


Students can get free Azure credits to explore these resources here:
* [Azure For Students ($100 in Azure - no credit card required)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students/)
* [Azure For Students Starter (use free Azure products with no credit card)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students-starter-faq/)
* [Azure Free Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/)

Your feedback is appreciated - please fork this repo and contribute!

To report any issues, please [log a GitHub issue](Issues). Include the content section, module number and title, along with any error messages and screenshots.

## Learn by doing with our [hands-on labs](Labs)
Check out our hands-on labs that can be used on your own or in the classroom. They also make for fun, easy-to-run workshops!

| Lab Categories | |
| - | - |
| [AI and Machine Learning](Labs/AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning) | Build bots and apps backed by AI and ML using Azure and Azure Cognitive Services. |
| [Azure Services](Labs/Azure%20Services) | Deploy serverless code with Azure Functions, run Docker containers, use Azure to build Blockchain networks and more. |
| [Big Data and Analytics](Labs/Big%20Data%20and%20Analytics) | Spin up Apache Spark Clusters, Use Hadoop to extract information from big datasets or use Power BI to explore and visualize data. |
| [Deep Learning](Labs/Deep%20Learning) | These labs build on each other to introduce tools and libraries for AI. They're labeled 200-400 level to indicate level of technical detail. |
| [Internet-of-Things](Labs/Internet-of-Things) | Use Azure to collect and stream IoT data securely and in real time. |
| [Web Development](Labs/Web%20Development) | Quickly create scalable web apps using Node, PHP, MySQL on easy-to-use tools like Visual Studio Code and GitHub. |

## Other available academic resources
We also have other great educator content including tech talks, coding challenges, and a machine learning event-in-a-box.

| Resource | |
| - | - |
| [Scripts (preview)](Educator%20Content/Scripts) | Scripts and templates to help set up your classroom environment. |
| [Azure Guides](Educator%20Content/Azure%20Guides) | Discover what Azure technologies apply to different teaching areas. |
| [Event in a Box](Educator%20Content/Event-In-Box/Machine%20Learning%20Challenge) | A pre-packaged event to help students explore machine learning. |
| [Course Content](Educator%20Content/Complimentary%20Course%20Content) | Learning modules to complement existing course instruction. Includes presentations, speaker notes, and hands-on labs. |
| [Tech Talks](Educator%20Content/Tech%20Talks) | Presentations on emerging or innovative tech topics with speakers notes and demos. |

## Content from other sources
| Resource | |
| - | - |
| [Technical Community Content](https://github.com/Microsoft/TechnicalCommunityContent) | Workshops from the community team. |
| [Bots workshop](http://aka.ms/NUSworkshop) | Bots and LUIS workshop from Singapore team. |
| [Cognitive Tookit](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/wiki/Setup-Windows-Binary-Script) | Resources to set up Cognitive Toolkit using notebooks from product team. After installing tutorials will be in c:\repos\bindings\python\tutorials. |
| [Research case studies](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/academic-program/microsoft-azure-for-research/) | Case studies of faculty using Azure for Research collected by Microsoft Research. Submit your own Azure research stories here too! |
| [Microsoft Research Data Sets](http://aka.ms/datascience) | Data sets shared by Microsoft Research for academic use. |
| [Machine Learning Data Sets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/machine-learning-use-sample-datasets) | Data sets shared by Azure Machine Learning team to help explore machine learning. |
| [MS MARCO](https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience/blob/master/www.msmarco.org) | Microsoft MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset generated from real Bing user queries and search results. |

Commit message:

add events folder and change home page

README.md, after:

# Academic Resources for Computer Science

**March 2018 Release.** *The content and code on this repo is intended for computer science instruction as a collaboration with Microsoft developer advocates and Faculty / Students under the [MIT license](LICENSE.md). Please check back regularly for updated versions.*

**Source:** https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience

This repo provides technical resources to help students and faculty learn about Azure and teach others. The content covers cross-platform scenarios in AI and machine learning, data science, web development, mobile app dev, internet of things, and devops.


Students can get free Azure credits to explore these resources here:
* [Azure For Students ($100 in Azure - no credit card required)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students/)
* [Azure For Students Starter (use free Azure products with no credit card)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students-starter-faq/)
* [Azure Free Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/)

Your feedback is appreciated - please fork this repo and contribute!

To report any issues, please [log a GitHub issue](Issues). Include the content section, module number and title, along with any error messages and screenshots.

## Learn by doing with our [hands-on labs](Labs)
Check out our hands-on labs that can be used on your own or in the classroom. They also make for fun, easy-to-run workshops!

| Lab Categories | |
| - | - |
| [AI and Machine Learning](Labs/AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning) | Build bots and apps backed by AI and ML using Azure and Azure Cognitive Services. |
| [Azure Services](Labs/Azure%20Services) | Deploy serverless code with Azure Functions, run Docker containers, use Azure to build Blockchain networks and more. |
| [Big Data and Analytics](Labs/Big%20Data%20and%20Analytics) | Spin up Apache Spark Clusters, Use Hadoop to extract information from big datasets or use Power BI to explore and visualize data. |
| [Deep Learning](Labs/Deep%20Learning) | These labs build on each other to introduce tools and libraries for AI. They're labeled 200-400 level to indicate level of technical detail. |
| [Internet-of-Things](Labs/Internet-of-Things) | Use Azure to collect and stream IoT data securely and in real time. |
| [Web Development](Labs/Web%20Development) | Quickly create scalable web apps using Node, PHP, MySQL on easy-to-use tools like Visual Studio Code and GitHub. |

## Host great [events](Events)
Want to host an event at your school? We can help!

| Resource | |
| - | - |
| [Event in a Box](Educator%20Content/Event-In-Box/Machine%20Learning%20Challenge) | A pre-packaged coding challenge to help students explore machine learning. |
| [Tech Talks](Educator%20Content/Tech%20Talks) | Presentations on emerging or innovative tech topics with speakers notes and demos. |

## Other available [academic resources](Educator%20Content)
We also have other great educator content to help you use Azure in the classroom.

| Resource | |
| - | - |
| [Scripts (preview)](Educator%20Content/Scripts) | Scripts and templates to help set up your classroom environment. |
| [Azure Guides](Educator%20Content/Azure%20Guides) | Discover what Azure technologies apply to different teaching areas. |
| [Course Content](Educator%20Content/Complimentary%20Course%20Content) | Learning modules to complement existing course instruction. Includes presentations, speaker notes, and hands-on labs. |

## Content from other sources
| Resource | |
| - | - |
| [Technical Community Content](https://github.com/Microsoft/TechnicalCommunityContent) | Workshops from the community team. |
| [Bots workshop](http://aka.ms/NUSworkshop) | Bots and LUIS workshop from Singapore team. |
| [Cognitive Tookit](https://github.com/Microsoft/CNTK/wiki/Setup-Windows-Binary-Script) | Resources to set up Cognitive Toolkit using notebooks from product team. After installing tutorials will be in c:\repos\bindings\python\tutorials. |
| [Research case studies](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/academic-program/microsoft-azure-for-research/) | Case studies of faculty using Azure for Research collected by Microsoft Research. Submit your own Azure research stories here too! |
| [Microsoft Research Data Sets](http://aka.ms/datascience) | Data sets shared by Microsoft Research for academic use. |
| [Machine Learning Data Sets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/machine-learning-use-sample-datasets) | Data sets shared by Azure Machine Learning team to help explore machine learning. |
| [MS MARCO](https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience/blob/master/www.msmarco.org) | Microsoft MAchine Reading COmprehension Dataset generated from real Bing user queries and search results. |
