Labs/AI and Machine Learning/readme.md, before:

# AI and Machine Learning

This folder contains hands-on labs introducing some of the tools available in Azure and in [Azure Cognitive Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/) for building intelligent bots and applications backed by AI and machine learning. Learn how to build machine-learning models with [Azure Machine Learning Studio](https://studio.azureml.net/) and connect to them from client apps, build neural networks with the [Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit](https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-toolkit/), train deep neural networks to recognize objects in images with the [Custom Vision Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/), and more.

Lab | Scenario | Technology/Language | Cost
--- | -------- | ------------------- | -
[Azure Bot Service](./Azure%20Bot%20Service) | Build an intelligent chat bot using JavaScript and Node.js, deploy it to Azure, and converse with it using Skype. | [Azure Bot Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/bot-service/)<br>[Microsoft QnA Maker](https://qnamaker.ai/)<br>JavaScript | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Machine Learning](./Azure%20Machine%20Learning) | Build a machine-learning model that recognizes handwritten digits. Then deploy it as a Web service and build a client app that connects to it and identifies the digits that you draw. | [Azure Machine Learning Studio](https://studio.azureml.net/)<br>JavaScript or C# | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Notebooks](./Azure%20Notebooks) | Create a Jupyter notebook to analyze climate data and use popular libraries such as scikit-learn, NumPy, and Seaborn to extract information from the data and create visualizations. | [Azure Notebooks](https://notebooks.azure.com/)<br>[scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/)<br>Python | [free](../Costs.md)
[Cognitive Toolkit](./Cognitive%20Toolkit) | Use the [MNIST database](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/) to train a neural network built with the Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit to recognize handwritten digits. | [Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit](https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-toolkit/)<br>Python | [free](../Costs.md)
[Custom Vision Service](./Custom%20Vision%20Service) | Train a neural network to recognize famous paintings. Then build a Node.js app that uses the network to identify the artists of paintings that you upload. | [Custom Vision Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/)<br>JavaScript | [free](../Costs.md)
[LUIS](./LUIS) | Build a language-understanding model with the Microsoft Language Understanding Intelligent Service (LUIS). Then deploy a bot that uses the model to respond to commands such as "Get the latest news about Microsoft." | [Microsoft LUIS](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/language-understanding-intelligent-service/)<br>JavaScript | [free](../Costs.md)
[TensorFlow](./TensorFlow) | Build a deep neural network that identifies images containing hot dogs, and build a Python app that uses it. | [Data Science VM](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-machines/data-science-virtual-machines/)<br>[TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)<br>Python | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Video Indexer](./Video%20Indexer) | Index a collection of videos and extract insights such as people in the videos, topics discussed in the videos, and video transcripts. Then deploy a Node.js app that makes video content searchable. | [Video Indexer](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/video-indexer/)<br>JavaScript | [free](../Costs.md)

Commit message:

Moved Keras lab out of draft

Labs/AI and Machine Learning/readme.md, after:

# AI and Machine Learning

This folder contains hands-on labs introducing some of the tools available in Azure and in [Azure Cognitive Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/) for building intelligent bots and applications backed by AI and machine learning. Learn how to build machine-learning models with [Azure Machine Learning Studio](https://studio.azureml.net/) and connect to them from client apps, build neural networks with the [Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit](https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-toolkit/), train deep neural networks to recognize objects in images with the [Custom Vision Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/), and more.

Lab | Scenario | Technology/Language | Cost
--- | -------- | ------------------- | -
[Azure Bot Service](./Azure%20Bot%20Service) | Build an intelligent chat bot using JavaScript and Node.js, deploy it to Azure, and converse with it using Skype. | [Azure Bot Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/bot-service/)<br>[Microsoft QnA Maker](https://qnamaker.ai/)<br>JavaScript | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Machine Learning](./Azure%20Machine%20Learning) | Build a machine-learning model that recognizes handwritten digits. Then deploy it as a Web service and build a client app that connects to it and identifies the digits that you draw. | [Azure Machine Learning Studio](https://studio.azureml.net/)<br>JavaScript or C# | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Notebooks](./Azure%20Notebooks) | Create a Jupyter notebook to analyze climate data and use popular libraries such as scikit-learn, NumPy, and Seaborn to extract information from the data and create visualizations. | [Azure Notebooks](https://notebooks.azure.com/)<br>[scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/)<br>Python | [free](../Costs.md)
[Cognitive Toolkit](./Cognitive%20Toolkit) | Use the [MNIST database](http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/) to train a neural network built with the Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit to recognize handwritten digits. | [Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit](https://www.microsoft.com/cognitive-toolkit/)<br>Python | [free](../Costs.md)
[Custom Vision Service](./Custom%20Vision%20Service) | Train a neural network to recognize famous paintings. Then build a Node.js app that uses the network to identify the artists of paintings that you upload. | [Custom Vision Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/)<br>JavaScript | [free](../Costs.md)
[Keras](./Keras) | Build a neural network and train it to analyze text for sentiment | [Azure Notebooks](https://notebooks.azure.com/)<br>[Keras](https://keras.io/)<br>Python | [free](../Costs.md)
[LUIS](./LUIS) | Build a language-understanding model with the Microsoft Language Understanding Intelligent Service (LUIS). Then deploy a bot that uses the model to respond to commands such as "Get the latest news about Microsoft." | [Microsoft LUIS](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/language-understanding-intelligent-service/)<br>JavaScript | [free](../Costs.md)
[TensorFlow](./TensorFlow) | Build a deep neural network that identifies images containing hot dogs, and build a Python app that uses it. | [Data Science VM](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-machines/data-science-virtual-machines/)<br>[TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)<br>Python | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Video Indexer](./Video%20Indexer) | Index a collection of videos and extract insights such as people in the videos, topics discussed in the videos, and video transcripts. Then deploy a Node.js app that makes video content searchable. | [Video Indexer](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/video-indexer/)<br>JavaScript | [free](../Costs.md)
