Events and Hacks/Student Hacks/endangered-animal-detector/README.md, before:

# Creating an Endangered Animal Detector cloud application

In this 60 min workshop you will create a cloud application that will **help detect endangered animals in the wild**. Being able to analyse the contents of images and act on the information is a great intelligent feature than can enhance your application.

You will build a prototype application infused with intelligence using Azure Platform-as- a-Service (PaaS) offerings such as [Azure Custom Vision service](https://www.customvision.ai), [Azure Logic Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-overview) and [Bonus] [Microsoft PowerApps's](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powerapps/#pivot=home&panel=maker) platforms. By linking these services together you can build reliable, scalable AI applications and get your users testing them as soon as possible.

# Pre-Requisties for your machine:

* Clone this repository to your local machine to gain images and code samples you need for the app: git clone <<ENTER LINK>> or choose 'Clone or Download' green button and then 'Download ZIP'
* Microsoft Azure Subscription - see details on [main readme.md file](../README.md)
* Laptop with a modern web browser (Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge)

> All demos and content have been tested on a Windows PC, however all options should run from macOS and Linux machines as well. Please provide information via an issue or pull request if you have feedback

# Go to Sections:
* **Section 1: Azure Custom Vision** - Creating Endangered Animal Detector Classification Algorithm, [go to section](endangered-animal-detector-intelligence.md)
* **Section 2: Azure Logic Apps** - Creating serverless process to analyse an image and email you, [go to section](endangered-animal-detector-pipeline.md)
* **Section 3: Microsoft Powerapps** - Creating a front end application to take a picture of an animal and analyse it, [go to section](endangered-animal-detector-frontend.md)

# Want to learn more about the services in this project??
After completing the sample below be sure to check out Microsoft Learn for really great course content that will get you up-skilled in many different technologies. The relevant courses I would recommend after this project to have a look at the below:

* [Classify Images with the Microsoft Custom Vision Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/classify-images-with-custom-vision-service/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)
* [Introduction to Azure Logic Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/intro-to-logic-apps/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)
* [Call an API from a Logic Apps workflow using a custom connector](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/logic-apps-and-custom-connectors/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)
* [Lots of different Microsoft PowerApps modules for you to try](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/browse/?resource_type=learning%20path&term=powerapps/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)

# Lets get started ...

First step is to create the intelligence to drive the app. 

Head over to the instructions to build a Custom Vision classifier [HERE](endangered-animal-detector-intelligence.md)

Commit message:

Added train the trainer video for Amy's workshop

Events and Hacks/Student Hacks/endangered-animal-detector/README.md, after:

# Creating an Endangered Animal Detector cloud application

In this 60 min workshop you will create a cloud application that will **help detect endangered animals in the wild**. Being able to analyse the contents of images and act on the information is a great intelligent feature than can enhance your application.

You will build a prototype application infused with intelligence using Azure Platform-as- a-Service (PaaS) offerings such as [Azure Custom Vision service](https://www.customvision.ai), [Azure Logic Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/logic-apps/logic-apps-overview) and [Bonus] [Microsoft PowerApps's](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powerapps/#pivot=home&panel=maker) platforms. By linking these services together you can build reliable, scalable AI applications and get your users testing them as soon as possible.

# Video Walkthrough
If you're delivering or re-using this workshop, be sure to watch the video beforehand! The train-the-trainer video showing a walkthrough of this workshop can be found [here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iR07ZShptyI&feature=youtu.be)

# Pre-Requisties for your machine:

* Clone this repository to your local machine to gain images and code samples you need for the app: git clone <<ENTER LINK>> or choose 'Clone or Download' green button and then 'Download ZIP'
* Microsoft Azure Subscription - see details on [main readme.md file](../README.md)
* Laptop with a modern web browser (Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge)

> All demos and content have been tested on a Windows PC, however all options should run from macOS and Linux machines as well. Please provide information via an issue or pull request if you have feedback

# Go to Sections:
* **Section 1: Azure Custom Vision** - Creating Endangered Animal Detector Classification Algorithm, [go to section](endangered-animal-detector-intelligence.md)
* **Section 2: Azure Logic Apps** - Creating serverless process to analyse an image and email you, [go to section](endangered-animal-detector-pipeline.md)
* **Section 3: Microsoft Powerapps** - Creating a front end application to take a picture of an animal and analyse it, [go to section](endangered-animal-detector-frontend.md)

# Want to learn more about the services in this project??
After completing the sample below be sure to check out Microsoft Learn for really great course content that will get you up-skilled in many different technologies. The relevant courses I would recommend after this project to have a look at the below:

* [Classify Images with the Microsoft Custom Vision Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/classify-images-with-custom-vision-service/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)
* [Introduction to Azure Logic Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/intro-to-logic-apps/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)
* [Call an API from a Logic Apps workflow using a custom connector](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/logic-apps-and-custom-connectors/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)
* [Lots of different Microsoft PowerApps modules for you to try](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/browse/?resource_type=learning%20path&term=powerapps/?WT.mc_id=build2019-event-amynic)

# Lets get started ...

First step is to create the intelligence to drive the app. 

Head over to the instructions to build a Custom Vision classifier [HERE](endangered-animal-detector-intelligence.md)
