Events and Hacks/Student Hacks/hackwithazure.md, before:

# Hack with Azure - aka.ms/hackwithazure
Share the love: [aka.ms/hackwithazure](https://aka.ms/hackwithazure)

## What is Azure?

## How to get free Azure credits
[aka.ms/azure4students](https://aka.ms/azure4students) - use your @<yourschool>.edu email to get $100 Azure credit plus free services  without a credit card.
  
Not working? Come to the Microsoft booth and we'll get it fixed.

## Azure API prize
Use any Azure service (like, any of them...) and enter our API prize (Azure Champ Challenge). Winners will recieve an Xbox One X for each team member and your hack will be entered into our Imagine Cup competition (the grand prize last year was a mentoring session with CEO Satya and $85k).

See below for details.

## Demos from Azure workshop
https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos
- [Text analytics - alpacas on reddit](https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos/html/cogservices_textanalytics.ipynb)
- [Speech to text/translation](https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos/html/cogservices_translate.ipynb)
- [Vision - coral reefs & scuba divers](https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos/html/cogservices_vision.ipynb)

(sorry, the speech to text one doesn't work on azure notebooks, but you can download the .ipynb and run it locally on Jupyter 😃)

## Tutorials
### Add AI
What cog services exist? https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cognitive-services/directory/ 

How do I use them? https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/

#### Go further with custom vision service
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/getting-started-build-a-classifier

#### Go further with Azure Machine Learning services
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/

### Make a web app
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/app-service-web-overview

#### For mobile apps
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/learning-paths/appservice-mobileapps/
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service-mobile/

### Add a bot
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/?view=azure-bot-service-3.0

### Use Tensorflow (or Keras, or CNTK, or Theano, or ...) without installing anything
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/data-science-virtual-machine/overview

### Play with Python (and TensorFlow/Theano/Sci-kit learn/etc.) in a browser
https://notebooks.azure.com/

### Publish an API hosted in the cloud
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/

### Azure functions for data streaming
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview

### Use the most popular IDE~ to get coding fast
[Get Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/?wt.mc_id=DX_841432)

~according to Stack Overflow's [dev survey 2018 😊](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2018/#technology-most-popular-development-environments)

## Other useful links
[Azure Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure) - Reference for all things Azure (and a lot of open source too).

[Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/) - Full tutorials on the most common developer topics like building a website or spinning-up a virtual machine.

[Microsoft Student Partners](https://imagine.microsoft.com/msp) - We are a community of university students around the world with an interest in technology. Coding is our shared common language. You might find yourself leading your own hackathon, mentoring computer science students, or unlocking the next great idea with your team – it’s all up to you. The program is all about gaining leadership experiences and getting access to resources and develop your technical and career skills. And we have a lot of fun too.

[Imagine Cup](https://imaginecup.microsoft.com/) - If you really like today’s challenges, we encourage you to consider taking the next step with Imagine Cup. Imagine Cup is a global competition for the next generation of students. Team up, and use your creativity, passion, and knowledge of technology to create applications that shape how we live, work, and play. Every year, tens of thousands of students from across the globe compete for cash, travel, and prizes and for the honor of taking home the Imagine Cup!

## Prize details
### What's our hack prize?
Each member of your team (up to 4 people) will win a
[XBOX ONE X 1TB](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x).
The primary requirement is that your hack project include Azure in some way. Please be sure to read the Terms & Conditions for Azure Prize specific to *your* hackathon. Ask Microsoft representitves for the link!

### How do I win? What's the judging criteria?

| Criteria | Points |
| -------- | ------ |
| Does the project address a clear need, problem, or opportunity and is the solution clearly explained? | /10 |
| Does the project include innovations in technical design and/or implementation of services (e.g., Cognitive Services, Machine Learning) and/or User Experience? | /20 |
| Does the project have a clear target market or audience? | /5 |
| Is the project’s purpose and basic functionality easily understood? | /5 |
| Does the project have a professional degree of production in terms of performance, user interface, visuals, and audio? | /10 |



### I want to enter my winning hack project into Imagine Cup
1.	Review the 2019 [Imagine Cup Rules and Regulations](https://imaginemedia.blob.core.windows.net/content/IC19%20Official%20Rules%20and%20Regulations-ecd22e3bba83.pdf)
2.	Up to three team members visit [ImagineCup.com](http://imaginecup.com) and Register for the 2019 Imagine Cup
3.	Once registered, gather the required materials to [submit](https://imagine.microsoft.com/submission/competition/17773) to the **Americas** Online Semifinals. 
    - Create a team of up to 3 members: 
        - The team can be created before submitting at the [Account page](https://imaginecup.microsoft.com/en-us/account) or at the time of submission. 
    - Submit the required materials prior to the **Americas** deadline **09:59:59 GMT+0 on Saturday, March 2, 2019** including 
        - Project Title & Description
        - Project Proposal (Word, PDF or PPT document detailing the project)
        - Software Upload (Package your project so that our judges can evaluate your solution – Zip file or link to project)
        - Software Instructions (Instructions on how to install and interact with the project)
        - Presentation Video (3min pitch and demo video as if presenting to live judges).
        - Inquire with your Microsoft rep for the Event Code
4.	The winning projects for this Hack will be evaluated against other winning projects in for a spot at the Regional Final.
     - All teams not chosen to advance will be given a second chance by being evaluated against all Imagine Cup teams in their region for the remaining spots at the Regional Final.

Commit message:

add what is azure section

Events and Hacks/Student Hacks/hackwithazure.md, after:

# Hack with Azure - aka.ms/hackwithazure
Share the love: [aka.ms/hackwithazure](https://aka.ms/hackwithazure)

## What is Azure?
Azure is a cloud computing platform (similar to AWS and Google Cloud Platform). We offer a broad range of services for developers to create with. 

In particular, Azure has great, beginner-friendly services to help you use...
- [AI/Machine Learning](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/ai-platform/)
- [Virtual Machines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/)
- [Web Apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/)
- [Containers (Docker/Kubernetes)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/)
- [Bots](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/?view=azure-bot-service-4.0)

...in your hacks!

[Get started with Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/#pivot=get-started&panel=get-started1)

## How to get free Azure credits
[aka.ms/azure4students](https://aka.ms/azure4students) - use your @<yourschool>.edu email to get $100 Azure credit plus free services  without a credit card.
  
Not working? Come to the Microsoft booth and we'll get it fixed.

## Azure API prize
Use any Azure service (like, any of them...) and enter our API prize (Azure Champ Challenge). Winners will recieve an Xbox One X for each team member and your hack will be entered into our Imagine Cup competition (the grand prize last year was a mentoring session with CEO Satya and $85k).

See below for details.

## Demos from Azure workshop
https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos
- [Text analytics - alpacas on reddit](https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos/html/cogservices_textanalytics.ipynb)
- [Speech to text/translation](https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos/html/cogservices_translate.ipynb)
- [Vision - coral reefs & scuba divers](https://notebooks.azure.com/shana/libraries/demos/html/cogservices_vision.ipynb)

(sorry, the speech to text one doesn't work on azure notebooks, but you can download the .ipynb and run it locally on Jupyter 😃)

## Tutorials
### Add AI
What cog services exist? https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/cognitive-services/directory/ 

How do I use them? https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/

#### Go further with custom vision service
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/custom-vision-service/getting-started-build-a-classifier

#### Go further with Azure Machine Learning services
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/

### Make a web app
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/app-service-web-overview

#### For mobile apps
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/learning-paths/appservice-mobileapps/
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service-mobile/

### Add a bot
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/?view=azure-bot-service-3.0

### Use Tensorflow (or Keras, or CNTK, or Theano, or ...) without installing anything
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/data-science-virtual-machine/overview

### Play with Python (and TensorFlow/Theano/Sci-kit learn/etc.) in a browser
https://notebooks.azure.com/

### Publish an API hosted in the cloud
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/

### Azure functions for data streaming
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview

### Use the most popular IDE~ to get coding fast
[Get Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/?wt.mc_id=DX_841432)

~according to Stack Overflow's [dev survey 2018 😊](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2018/#technology-most-popular-development-environments)

## Other useful links
[Azure Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure) - Reference for all things Azure (and a lot of open source too).

[Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/) - Full tutorials on the most common developer topics like building a website or spinning-up a virtual machine.

[Microsoft Student Partners](https://imagine.microsoft.com/msp) - We are a community of university students around the world with an interest in technology. Coding is our shared common language. You might find yourself leading your own hackathon, mentoring computer science students, or unlocking the next great idea with your team – it’s all up to you. The program is all about gaining leadership experiences and getting access to resources and develop your technical and career skills. And we have a lot of fun too.

[Imagine Cup](https://imaginecup.microsoft.com/) - If you really like today’s challenges, we encourage you to consider taking the next step with Imagine Cup. Imagine Cup is a global competition for the next generation of students. Team up, and use your creativity, passion, and knowledge of technology to create applications that shape how we live, work, and play. Every year, tens of thousands of students from across the globe compete for cash, travel, and prizes and for the honor of taking home the Imagine Cup!

## Prize details
### What's our hack prize?
Each member of your team (up to 4 people) will win a
[XBOX ONE X 1TB](https://www.xbox.com/en-us/xbox-one-x).
The primary requirement is that your hack project include Azure in some way. Please be sure to read the Terms & Conditions for Azure Prize specific to *your* hackathon. Ask Microsoft representitves for the link!

### How do I win? What's the judging criteria?

| Criteria | Points |
| -------- | ------ |
| Does the project address a clear need, problem, or opportunity and is the solution clearly explained? | /10 |
| Does the project include innovations in technical design and/or implementation of services (e.g., Cognitive Services, Machine Learning) and/or User Experience? | /20 |
| Does the project have a clear target market or audience? | /5 |
| Is the project’s purpose and basic functionality easily understood? | /5 |
| Does the project have a professional degree of production in terms of performance, user interface, visuals, and audio? | /10 |



### I want to enter my winning hack project into Imagine Cup
1.	Review the 2019 [Imagine Cup Rules and Regulations](https://imaginemedia.blob.core.windows.net/content/IC19%20Official%20Rules%20and%20Regulations-ecd22e3bba83.pdf)
2.	Up to three team members visit [ImagineCup.com](http://imaginecup.com) and Register for the 2019 Imagine Cup
3.	Once registered, gather the required materials to [submit](https://imagine.microsoft.com/submission/competition/17773) to the **Americas** Online Semifinals. 
    - Create a team of up to 3 members: 
        - The team can be created before submitting at the [Account page](https://imaginecup.microsoft.com/en-us/account) or at the time of submission. 
    - Submit the required materials prior to the **Americas** deadline **09:59:59 GMT+0 on Saturday, March 2, 2019** including 
        - Project Title & Description
        - Project Proposal (Word, PDF or PPT document detailing the project)
        - Software Upload (Package your project so that our judges can evaluate your solution – Zip file or link to project)
        - Software Instructions (Instructions on how to install and interact with the project)
        - Presentation Video (3min pitch and demo video as if presenting to live judges).
        - Inquire with your Microsoft rep for the Event Code
4.	The winning projects for this Hack will be evaluated against other winning projects in for a spot at the Regional Final.
     - All teams not chosen to advance will be given a second chance by being evaluated against all Imagine Cup teams in their region for the remaining spots at the Regional Final.
