Events and Hacks/Student Hacks/README.md, before:

# Hacking with Microsoft Azure

## Getting started

You can get started by creating an account on Azure. There's three different options available, depending on your current status as a student.

- [Azure for Students](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) | $100 in Azure for 12 months with free tier of services - no credit card required with academic verification
- [Azure for Students Starter](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students-starter-faq/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) | use select Azure products like App Services for free - no credit card required with academic verification

## Bootstrapping projects

- [Web Template Studio](https://github.com/microsoft/WebTemplateStudio/blob/dev/docs/install.md) is an extension for [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) which your team can use to quickly scaffold a project using [React](https://reactjs.org/), [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/), with a [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) or [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) back end. Web Template Studio was built by [interns](https://mcec.microsoft.ca/internships/) at the [Microsoft Garage in Vancouver](https://www.microsoft.com/garage/about/), for students, by students.
- [Education Hub](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Education/EducationMenuBlade/overview) is a "blade" or page on the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com) designed for students. From Education Hub you can access a set of templates to help quickly create resources on Azure, including components for IoT, Blockchain and Bot Services.

## What is Azure?

[Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) is a flexible, scalable, and full-featured cloud platform. If you can imagine it, you can build it on Azure, using the tools, languages and frameworks you're already familiar with. Python, JavaScript, Java, .NET - you can run them all on Azure.

Using Azure you can run serverless code using [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa), [host web applications](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) and [databases](https://azure.microsoft.com/product-categories/databases/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa), take advantage of artificial intelligence (AI) through [Cognitive Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa), and create your own machine learning models through [Azure Notebooks](https://notebooks.azure.com/) or powerful [Data Science Virtual Machines (DSVM)](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-machines/data-science-virtual-machines/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa).

## Learning Azure

To help get you started, we created three separate workshops. These workshops contain hands on exercises, to help get you up and running quickly with various technologies

- [Web and Artificial Intelligence](./mood-detector-workshop): Azure provides powerful AI tools, wrapped up in APIs that you can use from your apps to add intelligence without being an AI expert. In this hands-on workshop you will build a [Python](https://python.org) app that takes advantage of one of these APIs to detect emotions in faces, alerting you if you have a sad face too often. This app will be in two parts, one part that runs on the desktop and takes photos, and another that runs in the cloud to analyse photos and store the emotions detected.
- [Machine Learning](./endangered-animal-detector/): In this workshop you will create a cloud application that will help detect endangered animals in the wild. Being able to analyse the contents of images and act on the information is a great intelligent feature than can enhance your application.
- [Spatial Computing and Mixed Reality](./spatial-workshop): In this workshop we will go over the basic languages that make up a static website (HTML, JavaScript and CSS). From here we will dive into building a simple WebVR game with the JavaScript framework [Babylon.js](https://www.babylonjs.com/). After the step-by-step workshop to build the game we will learn about Azure Cloud and how to host your WebVR game. By pushing your site up to Azure Cloud you will be able to share your game with all your friends!

## Other learning resources

We offer a full suite of courses on [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa). Here's a few courses you might find interesting:

- [Create an FAQ chatbot with QnA Maker and Azure Bot Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/build-a-faq-chat-bot-with-qna-maker-and-azure-bot-service/index?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa)
- [Create a web application with App Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa)
- [Use Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa)

## Other useful resources

- [Azure Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - Reference for all things Azure (and a lot of open source too).
- [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - Full tutorials on the most common developer topics like building a website or spinning-up a virtual machine.
- [Azure Student Labs](https://aka.ms/azurestudentlabs) - Our repository of labs geared for computer science students that you can learn from. Find them at [aka.ms/azurestudentlabs](https://aka.ms/azurestudentlabs)
- [Microsoft Student Partners](https://imagine.microsoft.com/msp?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - We are a community of university students around the world with an interest in technology. Coding is our shared common language. You might find yourself leading your own hackathon, mentoring computer science students, or unlocking the next great idea with your team – it’s all up to you. The program is all about gaining leadership experiences and getting access to resources and develop your technical and career skills. And we have a lot of fun too.
- [Imagine Cup](https://imaginecup.microsoft.com/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - If you really like today’s challenges, we encourage you to consider taking the next step with Imagine Cup. Imagine Cup is a global competition for the next generation of students. Team up, and use your creativity, passion, and knowledge of technology to create applications that shape how we live, work, and play. Every year, tens of thousands of students from across the globe compete for cash, travel, and prizes and for the honor of taking home the Imagine Cup!
- [Internships and Full Time Opportunities](https://careers.microsoft.com/students/us/en/) - Are you interested in working at Microsoft? Check out the internship and full time opportunities for students and recent graduates at the link above. We have roles for students ranging all the way from freshmen students to PhD candidates!

## Azure Prize

### How do I win? What's the judging criteria?

| Criteria | Points |
| -------- | ------ |
| Does the project address a clear need, problem, or opportunity and is the solution clearly explained? | /10 |
| Does the project include innovations in technical design and/or implementation of services (e.g., Cognitive Services, Machine Learning) and/or User Experience? | /20 |
| Does the project have a clear target market or audience? | /5 |
| Is the project’s purpose and basic functionality easily understood? | /5 |
| Does the project have a professional degree of production in terms of performance, user interface, visuals, and audio? | /10 |

### What can our team win?

Our prizes vary by hackathon. Visit the Microsoft table at your event to learn more about the prizes at your hack!
The primary requirement is that your hack project includes Azure in some way. Please be sure to read the Terms & Conditions for Azure Prize specific to *your* hackathon. Ask the on-site Microsoft representatives for full details!

### I want to enter my winning hack project into Imagine Cup

The winning team also receives expedited entry into the 2020 Imagine Cup regional finals! Each winning team will have two separate chances to gain entry.

Commit message:

Added train the trainer links to main page

Events and Hacks/Student Hacks/README.md, after:

# Hacking with Microsoft Azure

## Getting started

You can get started by creating an account on Azure. There's three different options available, depending on your current status as a student.

- [Azure for Students](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) | $100 in Azure for 12 months with free tier of services - no credit card required with academic verification
- [Azure for Students Starter](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students-starter-faq/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) | use select Azure products like App Services for free - no credit card required with academic verification

## Bootstrapping projects

- [Web Template Studio](https://github.com/microsoft/WebTemplateStudio/blob/dev/docs/install.md) is an extension for [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) which your team can use to quickly scaffold a project using [React](https://reactjs.org/), [Angular](https://angular.io/) or [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/), with a [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) or [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/) back end. Web Template Studio was built by [interns](https://mcec.microsoft.ca/internships/) at the [Microsoft Garage in Vancouver](https://www.microsoft.com/garage/about/), for students, by students.
- [Education Hub](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Education/EducationMenuBlade/overview) is a "blade" or page on the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com) designed for students. From Education Hub you can access a set of templates to help quickly create resources on Azure, including components for IoT, Blockchain and Bot Services.

## What is Azure?

[Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) is a flexible, scalable, and full-featured cloud platform. If you can imagine it, you can build it on Azure, using the tools, languages and frameworks you're already familiar with. Python, JavaScript, Java, .NET - you can run them all on Azure.

Using Azure you can run serverless code using [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa), [host web applications](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) and [databases](https://azure.microsoft.com/product-categories/databases/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa), take advantage of artificial intelligence (AI) through [Cognitive Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa), and create your own machine learning models through [Azure Notebooks](https://notebooks.azure.com/) or powerful [Data Science Virtual Machines (DSVM)](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-machines/data-science-virtual-machines/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa).

## Learn Azure & Deliver a Workshop!

To help get you started, we created three separate workshops. These workshops contain hands on exercises, to help get you up and running quickly with various technologies. You can re-use, re-purpose, and deliver these workshops on your own as well.

- [Web and Artificial Intelligence](./mood-detector-workshop): Azure provides powerful AI tools, wrapped up in APIs that you can use from your apps to add intelligence without being an AI expert. In this hands-on workshop you will build a [Python](https://python.org) app that takes advantage of one of these APIs to detect emotions in faces, alerting you if you have a sad face too often. This app will be in two parts, one part that runs on the desktop and takes photos, and another that runs in the cloud to analyse photos and store the emotions detected. [Train-the-trainer video walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Cg2MlVByJQ&feature=youtu.be)
- [Machine Learning](./endangered-animal-detector/): In this workshop you will create a cloud application that will help detect endangered animals in the wild. Being able to analyse the contents of images and act on the information is a great intelligent feature than can enhance your application. [Train-the-trainer video walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iR07ZShptyI&feature=youtu.be)
- [Spatial Computing and Mixed Reality](./spatial-workshop): In this workshop we will go over the basic languages that make up a static website (HTML, JavaScript and CSS). From here we will dive into building a simple WebVR game with the JavaScript framework [Babylon.js](https://www.babylonjs.com/). After the step-by-step workshop to build the game we will learn about Azure Cloud and how to host your WebVR game. By pushing your site up to Azure Cloud you will be able to share your game with all your friends!

## Other learning resources

We offer a full suite of courses on [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa). Here's a few courses you might find interesting:

- [Create an FAQ chatbot with QnA Maker and Azure Bot Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/modules/build-a-faq-chat-bot-with-qna-maker-and-azure-bot-service/index?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa)
- [Create a web application with App Services](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa)
- [Use Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa)

## Other useful resources

- [Azure Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - Reference for all things Azure (and a lot of open source too).
- [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - Full tutorials on the most common developer topics like building a website or spinning-up a virtual machine.
- [Azure Student Labs](https://aka.ms/azurestudentlabs) - Our repository of labs geared for computer science students that you can learn from. Find them at [aka.ms/azurestudentlabs](https://aka.ms/azurestudentlabs)
- [Microsoft Student Partners](https://imagine.microsoft.com/msp?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - We are a community of university students around the world with an interest in technology. Coding is our shared common language. You might find yourself leading your own hackathon, mentoring computer science students, or unlocking the next great idea with your team – it’s all up to you. The program is all about gaining leadership experiences and getting access to resources and develop your technical and career skills. And we have a lot of fun too.
- [Imagine Cup](https://imaginecup.microsoft.com/?WT.mc_id=hackwithazure-hackathon-cxa) - If you really like today’s challenges, we encourage you to consider taking the next step with Imagine Cup. Imagine Cup is a global competition for the next generation of students. Team up, and use your creativity, passion, and knowledge of technology to create applications that shape how we live, work, and play. Every year, tens of thousands of students from across the globe compete for cash, travel, and prizes and for the honor of taking home the Imagine Cup!
- [Internships and Full Time Opportunities](https://careers.microsoft.com/students/us/en/) - Are you interested in working at Microsoft? Check out the internship and full time opportunities for students and recent graduates at the link above. We have roles for students ranging all the way from freshmen students to PhD candidates!

## Azure Prize

### How do I win? What's the judging criteria?

| Criteria | Points |
| -------- | ------ |
| Does the project address a clear need, problem, or opportunity and is the solution clearly explained? | /10 |
| Does the project include innovations in technical design and/or implementation of services (e.g., Cognitive Services, Machine Learning) and/or User Experience? | /20 |
| Does the project have a clear target market or audience? | /5 |
| Is the project’s purpose and basic functionality easily understood? | /5 |
| Does the project have a professional degree of production in terms of performance, user interface, visuals, and audio? | /10 |

### What can our team win?

Our prizes vary by hackathon. Visit the Microsoft table at your event to learn more about the prizes at your hack!
The primary requirement is that your hack project includes Azure in some way. Please be sure to read the Terms & Conditions for Azure Prize specific to *your* hackathon. Ask the on-site Microsoft representatives for full details!

### I want to enter my winning hack project into Imagine Cup

The winning team also receives expedited entry into the 2020 Imagine Cup regional finals! Each winning team will have two separate chances to gain entry.
