Workshop/README.md, before:

# Azure Workshop

The Azure Workshop is a collection of hands-on coding labs designed to help Computer Science faculty and students learn how to deploy solutions to the Azure cloud involving common scenarios such as Web development, AI and machine learning, data science, and IoT using cross-platform technologies. Most labs are compatible with Windows, macOS, or Linux and take 60 to 90 minutes to complete.

The labs fall into six general categories:

- AI and Machine Learning
- Azure Services
- Big Data and Analytics
- Deep Learning
- Internet-of-Things
- Web Development

Examples include [building a machine-learning model that performs Optical Character Recognition (OCR)](AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning/Azure%20Machine%20Learning), deploying an [Azure Function](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/) that [evaluates images uploaded to blob storage for adult content](Azure%20Services/Azure%20Functions), and [building a BlockChain network on Azure](Azure%20Services/Blockchain%20on%20Azure). Feel free to explore the folders and subfolders in this repo to discover all sorts of interesting exercises and use them to hone your Azure knowledge and development skills.

If you want to report any issues that need to be fixed, please log an [issue](https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience/issues) on GitHub. Include the content section (Tech Talk, Workshop, Course Content), module number, and title, along with any error messages and screenshots. We are constantly adding new labs and refreshing existing ones, and we welcome your feedback on improving the content and keeping it current.

Unless otherwise noted, these materials are licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You may use them according to the license as is most appropriate for your project. The terms of this license can be found at https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

Commit message:

Added "Prepare Microsoft Azure subscription" guide

Workshop/README.md, after:

# Azure Workshop

The Azure Workshop is a collection of hands-on coding labs designed to help Computer Science faculty and students learn how to deploy solutions to the Azure cloud involving common scenarios such as Web development, AI and machine learning, data science, and IoT using cross-platform technologies. Most labs are compatible with Windows, macOS, or Linux and take 60 to 90 minutes to complete.

Before you start, make sure you have access to Microsoft Azure subscription. If you need to create, follow this guide: [Prepare Microsoft Azure subscription](PrepAzure).

The labs fall into six general categories:

- AI and Machine Learning
- Azure Services
- Big Data and Analytics
- Deep Learning
- Internet-of-Things
- Web Development

Examples include [building a machine-learning model that performs Optical Character Recognition (OCR)](AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning/Azure%20Machine%20Learning), deploying an [Azure Function](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/) that [evaluates images uploaded to blob storage for adult content](Azure%20Services/Azure%20Functions), and [building a BlockChain network on Azure](Azure%20Services/Blockchain%20on%20Azure). Feel free to explore the folders and subfolders in this repo to discover all sorts of interesting exercises and use them to hone your Azure knowledge and development skills.

If you want to report any issues that need to be fixed, please log an [issue](https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience/issues) on GitHub. Include the content section (Tech Talk, Workshop, Course Content), module number, and title, along with any error messages and screenshots. We are constantly adding new labs and refreshing existing ones, and we welcome your feedback on improving the content and keeping it current.

Unless otherwise noted, these materials are licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You may use them according to the license as is most appropriate for your project. The terms of this license can be found at https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
