league-content/digital-accessibility.md, before:

![Digital Accessibility banner](images/accessibility.png)
> Image by [Jen Looper](https://twitter.com/jenlooper)

# Digital Accessibility Content

Resources of interest to students and faculty all about Digital Accessibility, including all the ways that we make our apps usable for everyone.

## Talks
[Testing Web Accessibility by Adrián Bolonio](https://speakerdeck.com/bolonio/testing-web-accessibility)
>How to find accessibility vulnerabilities in your website

## Code Samples

## Tools
[Accessibility Insights by Microsoft](https://accessibilityinsights.io/)
>Test accessibility of webpages, web applications, Android applications and Windows applications

[WebAIM: Contrast Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/)
>Check if the contrast ratio of your design's foreground and background colors adhere to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)

[Accessible Color Palette Builder](https://toolness.github.io/accessible-color-matrix/)
>Generate a matrix that shows accessible color pairings from your color scheme

[alex](https://alexjs.com/)
>Catch insensitive, inconsiderate writing

## Courseware
[Accessibility Fundamentals Learning Path on Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/paths/accessibility-fundamentals/)
>Take lessons on Microsoft Learn about digital accessibility

## Blogs

## Initiatives
[The XRAccessibility Project](https://xraccessibility.github.io/)
>The XRAccessibility Project is an initiative driven by the XR Association and XR Access to provide a central place for developers to find solutions for creating accessible code across various XR platforms.

## Events
[Microsoft Ability Summit 2022](https://abilitysummit2022.eventcore.com/)
>Microsoft Ability Summit is a free, community event that brings together people with disabilities, allies, and industry professionals to Imagine, Build, and Include the future of disability inclusion and accessibility.

Commit message:

Add more talks from Tech A11y Summit 2021

league-content/digital-accessibility.md, after:

![Digital Accessibility banner](images/accessibility.png)
> Image by [Jen Looper](https://twitter.com/jenlooper)

# Digital Accessibility Content

Resources of interest to students and faculty all about Digital Accessibility, including all the ways that we make our apps usable for everyone.

## Talks
[Testing Web Accessibility by Adrián Bolonio](https://techa11y.dev/main-track/testing-web-accessibility/)
>How to find accessibility vulnerabilities in your website ~ Tech A11y Summit 2021 ([Slide Deck](https://speakerdeck.com/bolonio/testing-web-accessibility))

[Inclusive Design, more than you hear by Marie van Driessche](https://techa11y.dev/main-track/inclusive-design-more-than-you-hear/)
>Marie van Driessche gives inclusive design tips on improving the usability and readability of your website. She will sign about how sign language is an intrinsically different way of communicating and how to make your website accessible for Deaf people, but actually for everyone. ~ Tech A11y Summit 2021

[FronteND and BackeND (Accommodate NeuroDiversity in your products) by Anna Korinna Németh-Szabó](https://techa11y.dev/main-track/frontend-and-backend-accommodate-neurodiversity-in-your-products/)
>In this session, Anna Korinna Németh-Szabó brings you challenges that neurodiverse users face every day, pinpoint struggles they encounter when using less-than-inclusive products, and offer best practices about how you can make your products accessible, inclusive, and user-friendly for a neurodiverse audience, too. ~ Tech A11y Summit 2021

## Code Samples

## Tools
[Accessibility Insights by Microsoft](https://accessibilityinsights.io/)
>Test accessibility of webpages, web applications, Android applications and Windows applications

[WebAIM: Contrast Checker](https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/)
>Check if the contrast ratio of your design's foreground and background colors adhere to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)

[Accessible Color Palette Builder](https://toolness.github.io/accessible-color-matrix/)
>Generate a matrix that shows accessible color pairings from your color scheme

[alex](https://alexjs.com/)
>Catch insensitive, inconsiderate writing

## Courseware
[Accessibility Fundamentals Learning Path on Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/learn/paths/accessibility-fundamentals/)
>Take lessons on Microsoft Learn about digital accessibility

## Blogs

## Initiatives
[The XRAccessibility Project](https://xraccessibility.github.io/)
>The XRAccessibility Project is an initiative driven by the XR Association and XR Access to provide a central place for developers to find solutions for creating accessible code across various XR platforms.

## Events
[Microsoft Ability Summit 2022](https://abilitysummit2022.eventcore.com/)
>Microsoft Ability Summit is a free, community event that brings together people with disabilities, allies, and industry professionals to Imagine, Build, and Include the future of disability inclusion and accessibility.
