Labs/README.md, before:

# Azure Labs

Azure Labs is a collection of hands-on coding labs designed to help Computer Science faculty and students learn how to deploy solutions to the Azure cloud involving common scenarios such as Web development, AI and machine learning, data science, and IoT using cross-platform technologies. Most labs are compatible with Windows, macOS, or Linux and take 60 to 90 minutes to complete.

Before you start, make sure you have access to a Microsoft Azure subscription. If you need to create one, follow this guide: [Prepare Microsoft Azure subscription](PrepAzure).

The labs fall into six general categories:

- [AI and Machine Learning](AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning)
- [Azure Services](Azure%20Services)
- [Big Data and Analytics](Big%20Data%20and%20Analytics)
- [Deep Learning](Deep%20Learning)
- [Internet-of-Things](Internet-of-Things)
- [Web Development](Web%20Development)

Examples include [building a machine-learning model that performs Optical Character Recognition (OCR)](AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning/Azure%20Machine%20Learning), deploying an [Azure Function](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/) that [evaluates images uploaded to blob storage for adult content](Azure%20Services/Azure%20Functions), and [building a BlockChain network on Azure](Azure%20Services/Blockchain%20on%20Azure). Feel free to explore the folders and subfolders in this repo to discover all sorts of interesting exercises and use them to hone your Azure knowledge and development skills.

If you want to report any issues that need to be fixed, please log an [issue](https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience/issues) on GitHub. Include the content section (Deep Learning, Azure Services, etc.), lab title, and exercise number, along with any error messages and screenshots. We are constantly adding new labs and refreshing existing ones, and we welcome your feedback on improving the content and keeping it current.

Unless otherwise noted, these materials are licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You may use them according to the license as is most appropriate for your project. The terms of this license can be found at https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.

Commit message:

Clean up links on Labs page

Labs/README.md, after:

# Azure Labs

Azure Labs is a collection of hands-on coding labs designed to help Computer Science faculty and students learn how to deploy solutions to the Azure cloud involving common scenarios such as Web development, AI and machine learning, data science, and IoT using cross-platform technologies. Most labs are compatible with Windows, macOS, or Linux and take 60 to 90 minutes to complete.

Before you start, make sure you have access to a Microsoft Azure subscription. Students can get a free Azure subscription and credits here:
* [Azure For Students ($100 in Azure - no credit card required)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students/)
* [Azure For Students Starter (use free Azure products with no credit card)](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/students-starter-faq/)
* [Azure Free Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/)

The labs fall into six general categories:

| Lab Categories | |
| - | - |
| [AI and Machine Learning](Labs/AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning) | Build bots and apps backed by AI and ML using Azure and Azure Cognitive Services. |
| [Azure Services](Labs/Azure%20Services) | Deploy serverless code with Azure Functions, run Docker containers, use Azure to build Blockchain networks and more. |
| [Big Data and Analytics](Labs/Big%20Data%20and%20Analytics) | Spin up Apache Spark Clusters, Use Hadoop to extract information from big datasets or use Power BI to explore and visualize data. |
| [Deep Learning](Labs/Deep%20Learning) | These labs build on each other to introduce tools and libraries for AI. They're labeled 200-400 level to indicate level of technical detail. |
| [Internet-of-Things](Labs/Internet-of-Things) | Use Azure to collect and stream IoT data securely and in real time.s |
| [Web Development](Labs/Web%20Development) | Quickly create a scalable web apps using Node, PHP, MySQL on easy-to-use tools like Visual Studio Code and GitHub. |


Examples include [building a machine-learning model that performs Optical Character Recognition (OCR)](AI%20and%20Machine%20Learning/Azure%20Machine%20Learning), deploying an [Azure Function](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/) that [evaluates images uploaded to blob storage for adult content](Azure%20Services/Azure%20Functions), and [building a BlockChain network on Azure](Azure%20Services/Blockchain%20on%20Azure). Feel free to explore the folders and subfolders in this repo to discover all sorts of interesting exercises and use them to hone your Azure knowledge and development skills.

If you want to report any issues that need to be fixed, please log an [issue](https://github.com/MSFTImagine/computerscience/issues) on GitHub. Include the content section (Deep Learning, Azure Services, etc.), lab title, and exercise number, along with any error messages and screenshots. We are constantly adding new labs and refreshing existing ones, and we welcome your feedback on improving the content and keeping it current.

Unless otherwise noted, these materials are licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT). You may use them according to the license as is most appropriate for your project. The terms of this license can be found at https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
