Labs/Azure Services/readme.md, before:

# Azure Services

This folder contains hands-on labs introducing some of the essential services that Azure provides to application developers. Learn how to deploy serverless code that runs in the cloud using [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/), run Docker containers in the cloud using the [Azure Container Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-service/), use Azure to build sophisticated [Blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain) networks, and more.

Lab | Scenario | Technology/Language | Cost
--- | -------- | ------------------- | -
[Azure Container Service](./Azure%20Container%20Service) | Use Docker containers to run Python code that converts color images to grayscale. | [Azure Container Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-service/)<br>[Docker](https://www.docker.com/)<br>Python | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Functions](./Azure%20Functions) | Use Azure Functions to evaluate images uploaded to blob storage for adult content. | [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/)<br>[Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/blobs/)<br>[Computer Vision API](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/computer-vision/)<br>C# or JavaScript | [$](../Costs.md)
[Azure High-Performance Computing (HPC)](./Azure%20HPC) | Use a Linux cluster to convert color images to grayscale and parallelize the work across the cluster's nodes. | [Azure Big Compute](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/big-compute/)<br>[SLURM](https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html)<br>Python | [$$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Storage](./Azure%20Storage) | Build a Web site that generates captions for images uploaded by users. | [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/blobs/)<br>[Computer Vision API](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/computer-vision/)<br>Java, C#, or JavaScript | [$](../Costs.md)
[Blockchain on Azure](./Blockchain%20on%20Azure) | Create your own cryptocurrency by deploying an Ethereum network on Azure. | [Azure Blockchain](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/blockchain/)<br>JavaScript | [$$$](../Costs.md)
[VM Scaling](./VM%20Scaling) | Run high-intensity Python calculations in Azure VMs, and compare the performance of various VM sizes and configurations. | [Azure Big Compute](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/big-compute/)<br>[SLURM](https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html)<br>Python | [$$$](../Costs.md)

Commit message:

Moved new Blockchain lab out of draft

Labs/Azure Services/readme.md, after:

# Azure Services

This folder contains hands-on labs introducing some of the essential services that Azure provides to application developers. Learn how to deploy serverless code that runs in the cloud using [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/), run Docker containers in the cloud using the [Azure Container Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-service/), use Azure to build sophisticated [Blockchain](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blockchain) networks, and more.

Lab | Scenario | Technology/Language | Cost
--- | -------- | ------------------- | -
[Azure Container Service](./Azure%20Container%20Service) | Use Docker containers to run Python code that converts color images to grayscale. | [Azure Container Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-service/)<br>[Docker](https://www.docker.com/)<br>Python | [$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Functions](./Azure%20Functions) | Use Azure Functions to evaluate images uploaded to blob storage for adult content. | [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/functions/)<br>[Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/blobs/)<br>[Computer Vision API](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/computer-vision/)<br>C# or JavaScript | [$](../Costs.md)
[Azure High-Performance Computing (HPC)](./Azure%20HPC) | Use a Linux cluster to convert color images to grayscale and parallelize the work across the cluster's nodes. | [Azure Big Compute](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/big-compute/)<br>[SLURM](https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html)<br>Python | [$$$](../Costs.md)
[Azure Storage](./Azure%20Storage) | Build a Web site that generates captions for images uploaded by users. | [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/blobs/)<br>[Computer Vision API](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cognitive-services/computer-vision/)<br>Java, C#, or JavaScript | [$](../Costs.md)
[Blockchain on Azure](./Blockchain%20on%20Azure) | Create your own cryptocurrency by deploying an Ethereum network on Azure. | [Azure Blockchain](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/blockchain/)<br>JavaScript | [$$$](../Costs.md)
[Blockchain on Azure (Rate My Professor)](./Blockchain%20on%20Azure%20(Rate%20My%20Professor) | Build a Web site for rating college professors and store the ratings in a tamper-proof blockchain. | [Azure Blockchain](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/blockchain/)<br>JavaScript | [$$$](../Costs.md)
[VM Scaling](./VM%20Scaling) | Run high-intensity Python calculations in Azure VMs, and compare the performance of various VM sizes and configurations. | [Azure Big Compute](https://azure.microsoft.com/solutions/big-compute/)<br>[SLURM](https://slurm.schedmd.com/overview.html)<br>Python | [$$$](../Costs.md)
