docs/README.md, before:

---
home: false
---

## Welcome

This repository lists content suitable for students/faculty to learn Azure and other Microsoft technologies. This content is divided up into a number of sections:

-   Learning content - this is content faculty can use to build classes or run labs, or students can use to learn in their own time
-   Hackathon content - this is workshops and other material suitable for hackathons
-   Event content - this is labs and workshops that can be used by students to run events on campus or in coding clubs
-   K-12 content - this is content designed for K-12 students, aged from 5-18. This can also be used for 101 level content in higher education or continuing education

We love contributions! Please read the [contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before making a contribution.

**Note** - this repo contains links to external content. Although we try our best to ensure the content is available, up to date, relevant, and appropriate, we have no control on what could have been changed in this content. If you find content that should be removed, or needs to be updated, please raise an [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/AcademicContent/issues).

## Key

-   🇬🇧 - English Language content
-   🇷🇺 - Russian Language content
-   🖥 - Programming languages and frameworks
-   🧠 - AI/ML
-   🕸 - Web
-   📱 - Mobile
-   🤖 - IoT
-   🥽 - Spatial

Commit message:

Adding more around docs and learn

docs/README.md, after:

---
home: false
---

## Welcome

This repository lists third party or curated content suitable for students/faculty to learn Azure and other Microsoft technologies.

The official Microsoft documentation lives in two places:

* [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/?WT.mc_id=academiccontent-github-cxa) - the documentation for microsoft tools and technologies, including getting started guides, quick starts, user guides, detailed documentation, and API and SDK references.
* [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/Learn?WT.mc_id=academiccontent-github-cxa) - hands on, self-guided learning for Microsoft tools and technologies.

This content is not a replacement for this official documentation, instead it provides the following:

-  Links to third party content including published curriculum from academic institutions, open source curriculum, blog posts or code repos on sites like GitHub that contain content relevant for learning or teaching
-  Materials to help you present content at events, computing societies, meetups or online
-  Video content such as YouTube videos and Twitch streams
-  Links to Microsoft Education content that is not yet in Docs and Learn
-  Links to content that will be ported to Docs or Learn at a later date

## Contents

This content is divided up into a number of sections:

-   Learning content - this is content faculty can use to build classes or run labs, or students can use to learn in their own time
-   Hackathon content - this is workshops and other material suitable for hackathons
-   Event content - this is labs and workshops that can be used by students to run events on campus or in coding clubs
-   K-12 content - this is content designed for K-12 students, aged from 5-18. This can also be used for 101 level content in higher education or continuing education



## Signing up for Azure

You can get free Azure credits to explore these resources here:

-  [Azure for Students](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students/?WT.mc_id=academiccontent-github-cxa) | $100 in Azure for 12 months with free tier of services - no credit card required with academic verification
-  [Azure for Students Starter](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/students-starter-faq/?WT.mc_id=academiccontent-github-cxa) | use select Azure products like App Services for free - no credit card required with academic verification
-  [Azure Free Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=academiccontent-github-cxa) | $200 in Azure for one month with free tier of services - requires a credit card and probably the best fit for faculty evaluating Azure for course instruction unless your organization has a grant or enterprise agreement.

## Contributing

We love contributions! Please read the [contribution guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before making a contribution.

**Note** - this repo contains links to external content. Although we try our best to ensure the content is available, up to date, relevant, and appropriate, we have no control on what could have been changed in this content. If you find content that should be removed, or needs to be updated, please raise an [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/AcademicContent/issues).

## Key

-   🇬🇧 - English Language content
-   🇷🇺 - Russian Language content
-   🖥 - Programming languages and frameworks
-   🧠 - AI/ML
-   🕸 - Web
-   📱 - Mobile
-   🤖 - IoT
-   🥽 - Spatial
